I should have started this a long time ago. But I guess now's as good
a time as any.

This changelog will be where I document any changes I make to any part
of this entire directory. Source files, macros, even scripts and
simulation file processing changes. So without further ado...



September 7 2018

Currently there's great debate about whether or not the muon energy
sampling method is correct. The position distribution is negligibly
altered from the original muon source file, and the angular
distributions have been extensively analyzed and found to be in good
agreement with expectation. However, until the energy issue is
resolved, no further simulations will be created or processed.

One major change to note at this time is a fundamental altering of the
world geometry. The information about the original world geometry and
the world geometry used after that will be kept in
Detector_CJStyle.icc under the options "OriginalWithRock" and
"OriginalWithRangeCuts" options, respectively. The "OriginalNoRock"
option will also be available, and is identical to OriginalWithRock
but with the rock all removed.

The new option will be "September2018WithCuts" and will feature the
following changes:

- The detector assembly will no longer be centered in the
  world. Instead, it will be shifted down 6.5 m.

  ("the detector assembly" refers to the watershield, the fill gas,
  the liquid argon, the copper cryostats and the germanium detectors
  themselves.)

- There was 23.5 m of rock located below the detector assembly. This
  will be reduced to 5 m.

- There was 15.5 m of rock located above the top of the lab
  space. This will be reduced to 10m.

- The world's size on the z axis will be reduced from 60 m to
  (60-(15.5-10)-(23.5-5)) = (60-5.5-18.5) = 36 m. The x and y axes
  will remain at 100m each.

- The lab cutout currently extends outside of the world. This has not
  thrown any errors because it is a subtraction solid. However, if we
  ever want to make the lab "real" and filled with something like air,
  it must fit inside the world boundaries. For this reason, its length
  on the x axis will be reduced from 70m to 60m, and it will be
  shifted 20m to the left of center, rather than 25 m. So its x bounds
  will be -50<x<10, rather than -60<x<10.


So much for geometric changes. The sampling method will also
experience significant changes. The sampling plane was 5 m above the
detector assembly. This meant part of it was actually in the lab
volume, and some muons didn't even cross through any rock before
hitting the top of the detector assembly (which is at the lab
floor). To give all muons a chance to shower properly, the sampling
plane is being shifted up 13m, and will sit 18m above the
assembly. This ensures that in the minimum case (muon travelling
straight downward, directly above the assembly) 10 m of rock will be
crossed (lab height = 8 m). To compensate for the increased vertical
distance, a larger plane must be made to simulate muons with large
horizontal momenta in such a way that they will hit the top of the
assembly isotropically. This increases the size of the sampling plane
to 99m in both x and y directions. To ensure isotropic behavior on the
sides of the assembly, the sampling plane would need to be 171m in
both x and y, which is currently considered unacceptably large. This
may change in the future, though, and would require a larger world.

Another change to the sampling method is that a geometric
calculation will be performed when a new muon is sampled. If a
straight line (along the muon's momentum) does not pass within 5m of
the detector assembly, that muon will be immediately killed before it
can propagate. This is to save on the enormous amounts of time muons
take to travel through the rock. This calculation will look very
complicated, but is in fact based on elementary trigonometry. It will,
of course, be thoroughly validated in a script before implementation.

As a final change to the sampling method, the position sampling of the
muons is being moved to ShowerGenerator.cc (where it should have been
all along, to be honest). It's going to be randomized and flatly
sampled on both the x and y axes. This will cause a difference from
the original muon's position information. The justification for this
is that the mountain profile is changing very slowly, so a small
change in location within the lab space will cause a negligible change
in the muon's other information.
	
Tentatively, it's likely that muon sampling will use a different input
file than it did previously. This is not being implemented until after
the energy validation, though, so stay tuned.


1/21/2019
G4Polycone seems to be completely broken after the move to Lawrence (minor alterations made to the code to make it compatible with GEANT4 10.02 btw). I've had to change the geometry so that rather than the inner/outer cryostats, liquid argon, and water shield being made out of a single polycone each, they're now each made out of 2 disks and a hollow cylinder. What a pain in the ass.

02/02/2019
I've added geometry options and modified the main file for the neutron multiplicity study. I should probably use two different main files for this... Look for an update soon saying that I've separated the two. The macro for the neutron study is neutronMultiplicitySource.mac

02/05/2019
Switched the module from neutron mode to muon mode, or whatever the heck you want to call it. Also, there were some mondo problems with the neutron study. The cause was the .000001 cm air gap I was leaving between each slab of rock. I forgot all about it when I told the module to kill any particles that changed boundaries into something that wasn't rock. I left the gap in the interest of preventing any weird boundary overlap issues, but it cause more problems for me than the boundary overlap ever would! What a world.

Anyway, switched over to muon mode, ran a test sim, made sure the geometric cut was working properly (AGAIN). Fixed hitbuilder, eventbuilder, jobsubmit, manysubmit to be compatible with Lawrence. Fixed traceback and trace2 (I hope).

03/03/2019
Neutron study went well. Implemented a custom tracking action. This tracking action effectively 'tags' nuclei created in the simulation as well as all their daughters/secondaries. When one of these particles shows up in the germanium, the information in the tag can be used to find information about the original nucleus, regardless of where it originated. Right now the only parameter stored and retrieved in this fashion is called 'nuclearPID', but I expect to add more very soon.

03/11/2019
Modified the new tracking action class to store vectors rather than single objects. Previously, I could only record the information about the original nucleus and the final particle which entered the germanium. This way, if for example, the nucleus creates secondaries, which create their OWN secondaries, the information about all three particles can be stored. This is definitely a work in progress and is not in its final build.

Also, switched back to neutron mode to run some modified neutron simulations.
